Auxiliary Modules
The Metasploit Framework includes
hundreds of auxiliary modules
that provide functionality such as
protocol enumeration, port scanning,
fuzzing, sniffing, and more.
The modules all follow a common
slash-delimited hierarchical syntax,
which makes it easy to explore
and use the modules.
There are too many to cover here,
but we will demonstrate the syntax
and operation of some of the
most common auxiliary modules.
To list all auxiliary modules, we
run the show auxiliary command.
This displays a very long list
of all auxiliary modules.
We can use search to reduce
this considerable output.
Metasploit allows us to filter by
app, type, platform, and more.
For example, we can search
for auxiliary modules…
that have “smb” in their name.
Once we find a module of interest, we
invoke it with the “use” command.
After invoking the module, we can request
more details about it with info.
The description reveals that the
smb2 module detects whether or not
the remote machine supports
the SMB 2.0 protocol.
The Basic options parameters
are the same as those
output by the “show options” command.
For this module, we need to
set the IP address of our target,
in this case our student
Windows 10 machine.
Instead of entering the
RHOSTS value manually,
we will search the database for
hosts with TCP port 445 open
and automatically add the results
to RHOSTS using the –rhosts option.
With the required parameters configured,
we can launch the module
with “run” or “exploit”
Based on the module’s output,
the remote computer
does indeed support SMB version 2.
To leverage this, we can use
the smb_login scanner module
to attempt a brute force login
against the machine.
First we need to load the module
and display its options.
The output reveals that
this module accepts
both Required parameters
like RHOSTS,
and optional parameters
like SMBDomain.
However, we notice that
RHOSTS is not set,
even though we set it
in a previous module.
This is because “set” defines
a parameter
only within the scope of
the running module.
We can instead set a global parameter,
which is available across
all modules, with setg.
For the sake of this demonstration,
let’s assume that we have discovered
valid domain credentials
during our assessment.
We would like to determine if these
credentials can be reused on others servers
that have TCP port 445 open.
To make things easier, we will try this
approach on our Windows client,
beginning with an invalid password.
We’ll start by supplying the
domain name of corp.com,
a valid username of “Offsec”,
and an invalid password.
Lastly, we’ll increase the amount
of concurrent threads to 10.
With our options set,
let’s run the module.
Since we knew that the password
we supplied was invalid,
we expected the login
to fail, and it did.
Now, let’s supply a valid password,
and re-run the module.
We can retrieve information
regarding successful login
attempts from the database
using creds.
Although this run was successful,
this method will not scale well.
To test a larger user base with
a variety of passwords,
we could instead use the
USERPASS_FILE parameter…
which will read the credentials
from a file containing users and
passwords separated by space,
with one pair per line.
Let’s re-configure the module
to use this file and run it again.
Excellent, this will scale much better.
Let’s try out another module.
In this example, we will try to identify
machines listening on TCP port 3389,
which indicates they might be accepting
Remote Desktop Protocol connections.
To do this, we will invoke
the rdp_scanner module.
Because we used “setg” instead of
“set” to configure the RHOSTS value
of the last module, we find
it is already set here.
This module successfully detected
RDP running on one host
and automatically added
the results to the database.